# Using Git Submodules

**This website is a great example: [ogios.github.io](https://github.com/ogios/ogios.github.io)**

- `blogs` are in another repo, and it's been added as a submodule under `/contents/blogs`, `blgos` has it's own scripts and `metadata`.
- Multiple separated frontend projects are added as submodules under `/projects`, they all provide a build cmd: `build:submodule` , `dist` will be moved to `/.output/public`.

> [!WARNING]
> Git submodules is not fully bind with branches, but file `.gitmodules` does.  
> This may be confusing, for example:
>
> - checkout from a branch with submodules to a branch without submodules, the submodule will not disappear, you have to delete it manually.
> - checkout from a branch without submodules to a branch with submodules, git will not initialize the module itself, it's manually done.
> - both branch can have there own submodules recorded in `.gitmodules`, module's directory will be created but modules won't be initialized.

## Usage

> [!NOTE]
> it's recommended to use GUI or TUI.  
> I personally use `lazygit` for every git related operations, it's a TUI project and enough for normal use.

Add a submodule:

```
git submodule add <url> <path>
```

Remove a submodule:

```
git rm --force -r <path>
```

Update from upstream:

```
git submodule update --remote --recursive [ -- <path>]
```

Init submodule:

```
git submodule update --init --force [ -- <path>]
```

## Other

You should not be afraid of deleting anything under a submodule.  
`/.gitmodules` records every submodule's path and with `git submodule update --init --force` it will be recovered.
